lviii mrnonncuov.

' paors to have been no statutable limit as ιο age, so that

it may be assumed as certain that, while the majority
would goat the ageos from ten ιο twelve years, (aa,
supposing them to commcacc tbcc'r adsectabar at Oxford,
of which more will he said shortly), there would ιο
found also a large number of more mature age. The
difficulty which occurs is then, how ιο account for the
numerous occasions on which we find scholare punished
for such offences as bearing weapons (p. 91, and passim
aec Scholars), turbulence, sueing-atlaw (p. 302), en-
gaging in merchandise and having children (p. 346), buy·
ing and selling victuale (p. 468), robbing with violence
(p. 531), along with other delinquencies ιοο numerous
ιο mention, but all plainly proving that the offenders
were not young boys l

In the first place, it will ιο remembered that the term
“scholar’' is ιο ιο taken as sometimes including all clerks
though more generally, it is used in our own sense, as
equal ιο non-graduate ,memhers of the University3 but,

without the extension admitted by this larger meaning,
it will be clear from what shall be now said that even
the term “achelon’' in our modern acceptationes its
meaning, will include all agee, and in considerable r
numbers of every age, from their tenth or twelfth ιο
their twentieth year.

Let us suppose then, that a yeoman’r son, ιο his
father’s vexation, for he thinks but meanly of hook·
learning, shows no aptitudo for the plough or for

- the swerd, but is somewhat paler and feehler than

his brothers and takes more pleasure in an old illumi-
nated missal, that lies on the shelf, than in country
pursuits or boyish sporta, and is often to ιο found

. persuading ιιο chaplain at the squire's or the priest

of the parish ιο instruct him a little in the mys-
terious art of reading. Itis clear, of course, that the
child is fit for nothing else, he must ιο made a clerk oi

 

